EMOTION: Release 5		Final build, ever! -- Friday 16th April 2004
==================

www.HermitGames.com
www.Technospective.co.uk/emotion


gameplay
--------
Knock two balls of the same colour together to eliminate them (10 x 2 points ).
Knock two differently coloured balls together to make a pod of a third colour.
Fly your ship into pods to eliminate them (15 points) and replenish your energy.
Pods will grow into balls if left too long.  Balls explode if left too long 
(minus 18 points), this depletes ship energy.  Eliminate all balls to complete
a level.  Run out of energy and it's game over.

If you clear a level without any balls exploding that is classed as a 'PERFECT
CLEARANCE'.  If you manage to clear a level with some energy and points
remaining (but one or more balls exploded) then this is classed as an
'IMPERFECT CLEARANCE'.

tips:
- Avoid creating pods unless you need a second ball of that colour
- Fly over pods as soon as possible unless you need them
- Try not to let balls settle in corners or against walls since it makes
  them difficult to get back into play.
- the balls will pulsate quickly when they are a few seconds from exploding
  but try not to panic -- be cool, be precise.

advanced:
- Try playing for points and not just level clearance
- You can create pods on purpose to harvest points
- Learn which ball colour combinations make which colour pods
- You can make some levels can last eons and score lots of points with careful
  pod and ball creation

And don't forget to put on some trippy or floaty music on your stereo --
some music that will induce calm and precision in you  :)



bonuses
-------
A bonus is given if you eliminate more than two balls of the same colour
simultaneously (or almost simultaneously).

A bonus is given if you clear the level perfectly and you have more energy
than you started-off with.  The bigger the surplus the bigger the bonus,
however you are capped to a maximum energy level so the bonus is limited.



hi scores & times
-----------------
For levels that have been cleared, a high score is recorded (until you
switch-off the playstation).  It is displayed on the game over screen, and on
the level selection screen (for the level that is currently highlighted) under
'level statistics' where a min and max time is also recorded showing
what was the quickest and slowest time in which you made a perfect clearance,
for example 10P3 means 10.3 seconds.

An aggregate high score is displayed (on the right hand side of the level
selection screen underneath the grid of levels) which is a total of all the
high scores from all the levels.  If you clear all the levels an authorization
code will appear at the bottom of the screen.  There might be an official high
score table on www.hermitgames.com or www.technospective.co.uk/emotion, if so
and your aggregate high score's high enough to be get onto it (and you want
to get on it) then you must note-down the authorization code very
very carefully and email it in.  The authorization code should be three
numbers (three groups of digits).  The first number is the number of levels
you have cleared perfectly, the second number is the aggregate high score,
and the last number is a check-sum.  All three numbers must be included in
the email.  It's probably best to note-down any high score, with authorization
code, that you are proud-of straight away incase of a power-cut or whatever.

NOTE: there is no memory card access from this game since it is an unlicensed
      demo.  So remember to note-down your high scores (especially any
      autorization codes) before switching off your playstation if you want
      to have a record of them.

NOTE: the min and max times for perfect level completion do not effect high
      scores or the aggregate -- they are just there for if you want to
      challenge yourself to complete a level quicker than before, or prolong
      things longer than before.


controls
--------
Supports standard D-pad, Dual Shock and neGcon.

D-Pad and Dual Shock:-

      dpad/stick left - rotate ship left
     dpad/stick right - rotate ship right
                    X - thrust (or select item)
               SQUARE - reverse thrust
                   L2 - left strafe thrust
                   R2 - right strafe thrust
               select - menu
                  tri - exit menu

neGcon:-

     left sholder, or the 'II', buton - forward thrust
    right sholder, or the 'I', button - reverse thrust.
                                 left - left strafe thrust
                                right - right strafe thrust
                        twist section - rotate the ship
                                    A - menu/select item
                                    B - exit menu

    NOTE: if when playing the game, with a neGcon controller, your
          ship rotates without you twisting the controller then your
          controller my need calibrating. If so, go into the options
          menu, make sure your controller twist section is in its
          central rest position, then exit the options menu...now
          your neGcon controller (or controllers) will be callibrated.



tweaking levels
---------------
If you get bored of the levels as they are you can tweak them (or at least
temporarily).  You may want to move, add or delete an object (like a ball or
an obstacle) to make a level easier, harder or more interesting.

NOTE: that any changes you make only last as long as the level plays...i.e.:
      when you go back into the level it will have retrurned to how it was
      originally.   Since this in an unlicensed demo there is no memory card
      access -- so you cannot save any new level layouts. Thus, it you are
      advised against putting a lot of work into tweaking a level.

To tweak a level start the level that you are interested in and go into the
menu by pressing select (or the A button on the neGcon) and choose the 'TWEAK
LEVEL' option.  You will then get an over-head view of the layout.  A flashing
white marker will appear over the current object.  You can change the current
object by pressing left or right.

To move an object select the 'POSITION' option on the menu. Then move the
object around as if you were flying the ship whilst playing the game (i.e.:
rotate and thrust controls).  When you have positioned the object as required
then press select to get back to the menu (or press the A button if you are
using a neGcon).

The exception to this is an 'elastic' object... the only way you can move
elastic is to change the objects to which it is attached.  To do this
move the menu cursor "->" to the 'END A' or 'END B' option and press left
or right to cycle through which object you want that end of the elastic
attached to.

To insert a new object position the menu cursor "->" next to the 'INSERT'
option.  Press left or right until it says the type of object you want
to insert.  Press X (or A on a neGcon controller) and position the cross
using left/right/up/down to where you want to insert the object....
then press X to insert the object (or press the right sholder button a neGcon
controller).

There is a limit to how many objects can exist on one level.  You will get the
message "CAN'T CREATE OBJ" if you have reached the over all limit or if
you have reached the limit for a particular object type.
The maximum for each type is:- 6 balls, 3 obstacles, 3 pieces of elastic
and 10 pods.  But it cannot be said how many objects over all you can have
on a level because it all depends on the performance of the program and the
playstation.  This is true also for when your playing the game...if you have
a lot of objects on a level there may be so many that when you knock two
balls together there may not be enough resourses left to create the pod --
so a pod does not appear....or a pod may not beable to turn into a ball
(because balls require more resourses to be displayed than pods).

Other menu options:-  Generally, control the other menu options in a similar
way to the ones discussed above -- use left/right to change the value and
X (or A) to select.

To play the level you have tweaked choose the 'QUIT' option or press the
tri button (or the B button on the neGcon).  The life span of the pods and
balls will be set back to their stated durations (so any time you spent
in the level before or during tweaking will not be taken off the life
time of the ball or pod).
   
NOTE:  If you acheived a new high score when playing a tweaked level then
        it will not count and will not be recorded... well otherwise that
       would be cheating now wouldn't it?  :)  Tut, tut.  Shame on you.




how to burn the ISO image using 'Nero Burning ROM 6'
----------------------------------------------------

Run Nero Burning ROM.

If a 'New Compilation' window appears then close it with the 'Cancel' button.

Insert your blank CD into your CD drive and select that CD drive (on the
tool bar of the 'Nero Burning ROM' window.  Apparantly blank CDs with the
darker blue recording surfaces seem to be best for burning PSOne games.
I have used: 'Verbatim DataLifePlus Super AZ0 Cristal CD-R 48x 700MB'
CDs with no problems.

Click on 'Recorder' on the top menu bar or the 'Nero Burning ROM' window.

On the menu that drops-down click on 'Burn Image...'.

In the 'Open' window that appears, find the ISO image that you unzipped
(probably called something like 'emotion_R5_PAL.iso') and double click on it.

Now the 'Burn Compilation' window should appear.

Make sure the 'write' and the 'Finalize CD' options have a tick beside them.
Click on them as appropriate if not.

If the 'Simulation' option has a tick against it then click on it to remove
the tick.

I leave the 'Determine maximum speed' option unticked, but I don't suppose
it makes any difference either way.

Select a the lowest speed available for that drive (e.g.: 4x).  Infact it
would probably work OK if you burnt it at the maximum speed -- but burning
at very low speeds is some kind of superstitsion that many people seem to
indulge in for burning games, and anyway it is a very small image so it won't
take long at any speed.

For the 'Write method' select 'Disc-at-once'.

Enter the number of copies you want, and you may as well put a tick by the
'Buffer underrun protection' option.

Then click on the 'Burn' button.... and once it's finished: click on 'OK' then
'Done', and try the disc in your mod-chipped playstation1 or PSOne.

If it does not work try burning a disc on a friend's PC since not all CD-R
writers seem to beable to write PSOne games.  For example my
'Pioneer DVD-RW-105' works fine, but my 'Samsung CD-R/RW SW208B' just
turns-out coffee mug coasters.  You could also try a different brand of CD-R.
Make sure your playstation is mod chipped.   By the way, I'm not sure if the
game runs on a mod-chipped PS2.




history
-------

Matt:
Well this is weird. Last time I looked at this code I was a naive student 
working from a tiny box bedroom in a shared house somewhere in Manchester. Aphex
Twin on the stereo (RDJ Album), sure this game was going to get signed, 
published, marketed and make us millions...

I look around where I'm sitting now, workplace still a bedroom? Yep (well for 
the stuff I love making anyway). Shared house? Nope, thank god, own flat now. 
Manchester? It somehow became Hull and then, even more mysteriously, I ended up 
here in London. Aphex Twin still on the stereo? Of course (drukqs). Published 
games, lots of cash? It's probably best if I don't warm up my cynicism for the 
commercial games industry, lets just say we worked bloody hard, and we didn't 
make millions.

But anyway I'm putting the finishing touches to a game I started writing with 
someone I met over the internet and ended up working with in real life. We 
shared the fun of getting our games canned, eating at Yankee Burger, being 
derided via email, being frozen by the Humber wind and ultimately being made 
redundant. This was the first game me and Jon worked on together, and it was 
probably the most fun to create, I hope you like it.



Jon:
My memories are becomming very murky now of how things first started-out on
this game.  At the time I was working on a project that had gotten hopelessly
out of control... it had started out as a first person shoot`em-up and
developed into a snow-balling human physics emulation project.  When you're
working on a project commercially you're considerate of deadlines and your
employer's costs, but when it's just your own time and your own money
(and you didn't have a dead-line to begin with anyway) then a project can
grow and grow and grow.

So as it happens this was a perfect project for me because I had already done
a lot of physics (mechanics) work.  The physics engine that I was writing
was more complex though and the main work in getting the physics of
Emotion to work, was in stripping-out the unnecessary stuff from my existing
physics engine so that it would work in just a 2D plane and so that
it would be fast enough to get a reliable 50fps or 60fps.

The most fun bit to program in this game was the stretchy and saggy elastic
graphics... I was toying with whether to try it or not because it's one of
those things that can take a lot longer that you think and we only had five
weeks to finish the whole demo initially.  But I tried it and it worked
practically first time and looked very effective...even considering I had
very few polygons to play with because resources were tight.  Think how
beautiful the same concept would look on a current day system with loads more
polygons and high res.

Unlike with my snow-balling project we finished release one of Emotion in the
allotted time of 5 weeks ready for prospective publishers to see... the
graphics have been tweaked and so on since then but essentially the
game was all there from the off.   Then....then... a whole lot of pain
followed -- mainly the pain of waiting and of dashed hopes after various
fallen through deals with this and our other Darkhex demos....I expect it is
the same kind of experience for novelists when they finish their book and
excitedly send off their manuscrip to publishers.

So here it is....we almost forgot about it all together, such was our mental
block of the traumatic period it kicked-off.  So as soon as it occured to us
that our little ol' game was sitting there unreleased, unplayed, and unloved,
we raced to make a few last mods and a few more levels and get it out there
to whoever wanted it -- free of charge.

Thanks to all the Yarozers who gave us encouragement during those days when
Matt, Marc and me were waiting for publishers to get back to us on this and
other demos...I hope you enjoy playing this living piece of that history.


extras
------
If you're interested in video game development there is a directory called
'INTEREST'.  The interest directory is actually burnt onto the CD (that way
it gets propergated sould you copy the disc).  To look at it simply put
the CD into you PC's CD drive and access the files in the normal way.

The 'interest' directory just contains some documents that we happened to
have lying around to do with the development of the game.



credits
-------
code/gfx/sfx/levels: 
  Jon Prestidge
  Matt Verran

guest levels:
  Andrew Partington.

contact and more fun stuff:
  http://www.hermitgames.com
  http://www.technospective.co.uk/emotion

warning:
  Every level has been 'imperfectly cleared' during testing but not all
  have been 'perfectly cleared'... the last few were just too hard... so
  although I have tried to make sure they all are possible, I can't be 100%
  sure -- you have been warned :)   Don't go insane nor nuffin' will you?

disclaim:
  This is a demo only. We make no claim to the E-Motion name or concept, this 
  is merely our interpretation of E-Motion on the Playstation one.



