PingPing
========

...blip blip blip bloup...


gameplay
--------

Bat the little ball to and fro between the two players over the centre point. 
You can angle your bat to affect the balls trajectory and hit the ball while the
bats in motion to affect it's speed. Attempt to make the other player miss the 
ball and score yourself a point, 5 points and you win the game.


controls
--------

D-pad/left analog stick  - move the bat left and right
                  Square - angle the bat up to hit ball lower
                   Cross - angle the bat down to hit ball higher

If you hit the ball while the bat it moving towards the centre point the ball 
will increase speed. Hitting the ball while travelling away from the centre 
point will decrease the balls speed.


credits
-------

code/gfx/sfx : Matt Verran
testing      : Jon Prestidge

The spiritual successor to my Pong clone: Ping, PingPing was completed in around
4 days making use of the engine I wrote for my more in depth project Roller. It 
was inspired by a brief shot of a military computer research game in the Channel 
4 documentary "Thumb Candy". Stylistically I wanted to create something avant-
guarde, maybe even an art house game, hence the minimilist sound effects and 
excessive motion blur. Hopefully I succeded in making something that would never 
be published commercially :)

mverran@btinternet.com
www.yarozescene.co.uk
www.netyaroze-europe.com/~frktlx/
www.btinternet.com/~mverran/


praise for PingPing
-------------------

"Pretty impressive! You sure your 
      not trying to take the piss out of everyone else! ;-)"             
                                - James Burns (SCEE)

"Great game - love the simple simple concept."
                                - Kenny Millar

"Great game ... very addictive"
                                - Ben James (Codemasters)

"I find PingPing brilliant. It is 
            the best Pong rehash ever, really"
                                - Pal

                   

future
------

There are no plans to work on further versions of PingPing at this time.
